Pad Thai

Ingredients:

1-oz tamarind paste
3/4 cup boiling water
2 tbsp fish sauce
2 tbsp palm sugar
1 tbsp rice wine vinegar
4 oz rice stick noodles
6 oz Marinated Tofu (recipe follows)
1-2 tbsp peanut oil
1 cup chopped scallions, divided
2 tsp minced garlic
2 whole eggs, beaten
2 tsp salted cabbage
1 tbsp dried shrimp
3 oz bean sprouts, divided
1/2 cup roasted salted peanuts, chopped, divided
Freshly ground dried red chile peppers, to taste
1 lime, cut into wedges

Directions:

 Place the tamarind paste in the boiling water and set aside while preparing
 the other ingredients.

 Combine the fish sauce, palm sugar, and rice wine vinegar in a small bowl and
 set aside.

 Place the rice stick noodles in a mixing bowl and cover with hot water. Set
 aside while you prepare the remaining ingredients. Once the other ingredients
 are measured out into separate bowls, drain the water from the noodles and
 set them aside. Cut the tofu into 1/2-inch wide strips, similar to French
 fries.

 Press the tamarind paste through a fine mesh strainer and add to the sauce.
 Stir to combine.

 Place a wok over high heat. Once hot, add 1 tablespoon of the peanut oil.
 Heat until it shimmers, then add the tofu. Cook the tofu until golden brown,
 moving constantly, for no longer than 1 minute. Remove the tofu from the pan
 to a small bowl and set aside.

 If necessary, add some more peanut oil to the pan and heat until shimmering.
 Add 2/3 of the scallions and then the garlic, cook for 10 to 15 seconds. Add
 the eggs to the pan; once the eggs begin to set up, about 15 to 20 seconds,
 stir to scramble. Add the remaining ingredients in the following order and
 toss after each addition: noodles, sauce, cabbage, shrimp, and 2/3 of the
 bean sprouts and peanuts. Toss everything until heated through, but no longer
 than 1 to 2 minutes total. Transfer to a serving dish. Garnish with the
 remaining scallions, bean sprouts, and peanuts. Serve immediately with the
 ground chile peppers and lime wedges. 


Marinated Tofu:

Ingredients:
6 oz extra-firm tofu, not silken
1 1/2 cup soy sauce
1 tsp Chinese five-spice powder

Directions:

Wrap the tofu firmly in a tea towel. Place the wrapped tofu into an 8-inch
cake pan. Top with another cake pan and weigh down with a 5-pound weight.
(Bags of dried beans or grains work well.) Place in refrigerator and press for
12 to 15 hours.

Place pressed tofu in a 2-cup container. Combine soy sauce and five-spice
powder and pour over tofu. Cover and refrigerate for 30 minutes, turning once.
Remove the tofu from the marinade and use immediately or store in the
refrigerator for up to 2 to 3 days.

Yield: 6 ounces tofu 

retrieved from:
http://www.foodnetwork.com/recipes/alton-brown/pad-thai-recipe/index.html  
